[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
what about this react thing?
The observation that we need to make
is that promises are really powerful.
But they do not map well to event streams.
Because a promise, once created,
can only be resolved once.
Which would be great if you were only ever
gonna get one request against your server.
But you're not.
You're gonna get lots of them.
There is this principle of streams
which are what the request and
response objects are themselves.
But how do we asynchronously respond
every time a new stream spins up?
How do we handle it?
Well, one way of doing that,
if I were to just suggest some pseudocode.
One way of doing that is you could have
a stream object that represented this
stream of incoming requests.
And you could listen for
whatever the event might be.
I think it's the request event
that the HTTP server spends.
And inside of here,
>> Kyle Simpson: that is,
every time a new request comes in.
You could fire off your whole stream
of routing processing inside of
this function.
And many people do that,
and it's perfectly fine.
But one of the downsides to it is that
now you just have a regular function.
And all of the stuff has to be
self-contained inside of that function.
And it's a little bit awkward to call out
other modules in your application and
so forth.
Redefining, if I were to
just sort of pseudocode it.
If I had some big stream of
promise chain going on here.
I'd have to be repeating that promise
chain over, and over, and over again,
every time this event fired.
Cuz I'd make one promise chain for
each request.
Essentially, if we were to boil down.
If you've heard about
reactive programming.
If you've heard about the Microsoft RxJS
library, super fantastic,
but also crazy complex.
The stuff that they
support is unbelievable.
If you've heard about reactive programming
and about that whole model, essentially,
when you boil it all down.
What they have is this notion
of inverting this paradigm
to create something that
they call an observable.
An observable is something that is gonna
get notified every time an event happens.
It will send out a new stream of
asynchronous stuff every time that event
happens.
So it's a way to adapt your asynchronous
flow control to an event stream.
They have a whole bunch of different
ways in the RxJS library of doing that.
By the way, my usage of react and
my usage of the word reactive programming
is not at all the same thing as
the Facebook React framework.
It's a very unfortunate
overlap of terminology.
This doesn't have anything at
all to do with Facebook's React.
They're a virtual DOM rendering thing
that mostly runs in the browser.
That's not we're talking about here.
We're talking about reactive programming.
Reactive programming being, essentially,
adapting a stream to an asynchronous flow.
In my library,
I have a method called react.
Which allows you,
off the end of the react,
to define an arbitrary chain
of your behavior, once.
And every time you call the trigger,
it will fire off a new
instance of the chain for you.
So it's uninverted.
Instead of defining in the chain inside
of the handler, we define the handler and
then the chain.
That really is, actually,
the most 50,000-foot,
basic view of what reactive
programming is about.
Is inverting that paradigm to adapt
streams to asynchronous flow control.
So it's really nice and easy here.
All I have to do is listen for
the request event.
Instead of having a function that
has to declare all of my stuff,
I just trigger it off.
And that's what runs my router
through this runner function.
>> Kyle Simpson: I understand if you
haven't done a lot of asynchronous
programming with promises and generator.
Some of that that I just glossed over
might feel little bit like, wait a minute.
I haven't dealt with promises and
generators before.
That's fine.
There's a lot of work to do to
relearn all of these things.
I've been doing it for a while, so
it's easy for me to just rattle off.
I understand it may be
new to a lot of you.
There's lots of resources
out there about this topic.
I have a book on it.
There's a couple of dozen different
blog posts that are out there about it.
There's a great talk by a guy named Jafar,
who's got a training with
Frontend Masters on asynchronous stuff.
He's really even pushing the envelope
further than even I'm talking about.
I mean, he's going crazy with new
stuff that he's proposing for ES7.
So there's dozens of different ways
that you can start to learn more about
asynchronous programming.
The point of today's talk is not
really to get too bogged down in
the weeds with asynchronous programming.
But I just wanted to point
out that those few lines,
plus this 40-line function,
is, essentially, a full and complete
replacement of the express framework.
Or the COA framework.
I'm just trying to illustrate
that you can do these concepts
without necessarily having to
learn a whole new framework.
>> Speaker 2: Do you mind a question?
Asterisk, on that router thing,
you said that makes it generator?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
what makes it generator.
>> Speaker 2: Is that
only a convention or?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, that's a real thing.
It's a syntactic requirement.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Here's
a question that popped up.
>> Kyle Simpson: How can
we export variables and
functions to other JavaScript?
Not sure if I understand the question.
How can we export?
Perhaps that question in
chat can be clarified?
Cuz I'm not really sure what
the question is asking for.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
not saying frameworks are bad.
I'm simply saying that frameworks make
a lot of extra stuff for you to learn.
If you're looking for a way to get in and
start playing with stuff without having
to learn fifteen other framework's APIs.
This is just basic JavaScript.
I'm showing you that the concepts
are much easier than the frameworks
themselves can be.
First thing I wanna illustrate
is working with those templates.
In your shared-js folder,
we can open up the index.grips.html file.
Then I'm going to actually duplicate it.
I'm gonna save it off to another
name in that same folder.
I'm going to call it about.grips.html.
So now I have two different files that
both have the same content in them.
Let's take what's in about.grips.
And let's change it so that it's
clear that that's the about page.
Maybe change the content of your h1.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have created a file,
and saved it, and
I have not touched my server in any way,
shape, or form.
I'm not even going to change the master
template to add it to the nav, but
I can in the next step.
All I wanna do is illustrate that having
done nothing but add a file and save it.
Hopefully, this doesn't blow up on
me like other live demos have today.
I should just be able to add
/about on to the end of the URL.
Actually, I'm gonna have to refresh so
I get the new JavaScript.
So refresh, and
then add /about onto the end of the URL.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it should load
the about page that we created.
That was a load from the server.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because
the server was aware of it.
So now let's update our nav,
go into the master grips template.
>> Kyle Simpson: You'll notice that I have
>> Kyle Simpson: a nav
element here with a link.
I'm just gonna add another one.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's it.
Just added another one.
>> Kyle Simpson: Having
saved that file now,
everything has completely rebuilt
itself in the background.
So when I refresh my page,
I now have a nav that I can click on and
switch between my two pages.
I had to make any changes to any of my
routing, or any of my code, or whatever.
Because that code is all dynamically
adapting itself to whatever templates
are existing.
As long as there's a template for
that URL, and
it can recognize the template
based upon the URL.
It automatically invokes and
renders that template.
So now, as I'm switching back and
forth, these are not actually
loading from the server anymore.
These are rerun during that
partial in the page, and
swapping it in just like
any normal single-page app.
Whenever I do a refresh,
that's when it actually makes an initial
request to the server and
the server renders it.
And then immediately
the JavaScript takes back over,
and now we're running in
single-page app mode.